docs: :memo: update package creation guide to match new flow (#1386)
seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout: docs/guide/packages.qmd

[{{< glossary "properties">}}](../glossary.qmd), or metadata about the
data package and the data resources within it. Right now, you don't have
a `datapackage.json` file yet. Before you can create one though, you
need to write out the properties for the data package.

While you could manually create a `datapackage.json` file and then add
the properties manually to it yourself, this is not a pleasant
experience. You would need to know the exact fields and values to fill
in, which are required and which are optional, and how to format them
correctly. To make this easier, Sprout provides a way to create the
properties using Python scripts. So let's make this script first!

The `main.py` file is where you will write the code to create and manage
your data package, so that you can easily recreate your data package and
its resources. Open the `main.py` file in your Python project, delete
everything in it and copy and paste the below code into it.

``` python
import seedcase_sprout as sp

def main():
    # Create the properties script in default location.
    sp.create_properties_script()
    # Simply to have something to return.

>     return "Done!"

Author: No, it's not. I can remove it :relaxed:

            title="Open Data Commons Attribution License 1.0",
        )
    ],
    # We don't include the rest in this guide, the above is only to
    # show what it might look like writing properties.
)
```

Now that you've filled in some of the package properties, it's time to

> create your data package with these properties. You can use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create your `datapackage.json` file with these properties. You can use the
```

`write_properties()` function for this. But in order to use it
effectively, it's best included within the `main.py` script within the
`main()` function, so that it can be run as part of your build pipeline.
So in your `main.py`, include this code:

<!-- TODO: How to auto-run the code below? -->

``` python
import seedcase_sprout as sp
from scripts.properties import properties

def main():
    # Create the properties script in default location.
    sp.create_properties_script()

>     sp.write_properties(properties=properties)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Write properties from properties script to `datapackage.json`.
    sp.write_properties(properties=properties)
```

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

```{python}
#| include: false
# Only to check that it runs.
sp.write_properties(
    properties=properties,
    path=sp.PackagePath(package_path).properties()
)
```

Then, run this command in the Terminal:

``` {.bash filename="Terminal"}
uv run main.py
```

::: callout-important
The `write_properties()` function will give an error if the
`PackageProperties` object is missing some of its required fields or if
they are not filled in correctly. In that case, a `datapackage.json`
file won't be created. So you will have to return to the
`scripts/properties.py` file and fill in the correct properties.
:::

The `write_properties()` function created the `datapackage.json` file in
your data package's `diabetes-study` folder, which contains the properties
you added to it. Now, you will see the added `datapackage.json` file in
your data package folder.

> 

Reviewer: Include directory tree here?

wanting to learn more about your data package. You can use
`as_readme_text()` to convert the properties into text that can be added
to a README file. Let's create a README file with the properties of the
data package you just created by writing it in the `main.py` file.

``` python
import seedcase_sprout as sp
from scripts.properties import properties

def main():
    # Create the properties script in default location.
    sp.create_properties_script()
    sp.write_properties(properties=properties)
    readme_text = sp.as_readme_text(properties)

>     sp.write_file(readme_text, sp.PackagePath().readme())

Reviewer: Add comments to all of these steps? Or why only the first step?

if __name__ == "__main__":

>     main()

Reviewer: Do we want to somehow initialise the main script (maybe using a template like with properties?) with some of these basic steps that all data packages need?

```

Sprout splits the README creation functionality into two steps: One to
make the text and one to write to the file. That way, if you want to add
or manipulate the text, you can do so before writing it to the file.
This is useful if you want to add information to the README that you
don't want included in the `datapackage.json` file. For this guide we

> won't cover how or why to do this.

Reviewer: Why not? I think this would be a good place to include that?

Reviewer: Or do we want to make a "customising" guide at some point?

Next, run this command in the Terminal to make the README file. The
`write_file()` will always overwrite the existing README file.

``` {.bash filename="Terminal"}
uv run main.py
```

```{python}
#| include: false
# Only to check that it runs.
readme_text = sp.as_readme_text(properties)
sp.write_file(
    string=readme_text,
    path=sp.PackagePath(package_path).readme()
)
```

> Now you can see that there are more files created in your data package!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can see that the `README.md` file has been created in your data package:
```

```{python}
#| echo: false
sp.pprint(internals._list_rel_files(package_path))
```

## Editing package properties

If you made a mistake and want to update the properties in the current
`datapackage.json`, you can edit the Python script directly where you
previously made the properties. Since everything is written in Python

> scripts, updating those scripts and re-running your build pipeline will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scripts, updating those scripts and re-running your build pipeline (`main.py`) will
```

> then update everything again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then update everything.
```
